Welcome, everyone!
In this update,
I thought we might reflect
on Jehovah’s goodness
and the way he’s been guiding
his people during the pandemic.
I’m sure we all agree
with the words of the psalmist
found at Psalm 27:13:
“Where would I be
“if I did not have faith
“that I would see Jehovah’s goodness
in the land of the living?”
“Where would I be?”
That’s something to think about, isn’t it?
How grateful we are to be
associated with Jehovah’s organization
and to benefit
from its direction and guidance,
especially when we see where we could be
—in the confused and divided world around us.
With your eyes of faith,
do you see Jehovah
as directing his people today?
Now, we know he is interested
in our spiritual well-being.
But what about our physical well-being
—our health?
Does he care about that?
If he does, will he make sure
that we get good advice
—even on health matters?
To answer that, let’s consider
the promise Jehovah made
as found at Psalm 32:8.
This is one we know well, but let’s
look at this from another perspective.
This is Psalm 32:8.
He says:
“I will give you insight
“and instruct you in the way you should go.
“I will give you advice
with my eye upon you.”
So here’s a promise that Jehovah
will give us the advice we need.
But advice on what subject?
Think back to the days of Israel.
Was Jehovah interested in the health
and safety of his people back then?
He certainly was.
He instructed the Israelites
to quarantine the sick.
He told them not to eat
unclean birds and animals
because doing so could have been
harmful for their health.
And he insisted that they build
a parapet around the flat roof of their homes
so no one would fall off.
He loved his people.
He wanted them to be safe.
Jehovah hasn’t changed.
He still cares about the health
and safety of his people.
Now, in the psalm we just read,
he promised to give us insight,
instruction, and advice.
How does he do that today?
He does it by means of his organization.
In some countries, there’s been
considerable confusion and disagreement
over how to deal with the pandemic.
Some chafe at the idea of wearing masks,
and they refuse
to practice physical distancing,
even when these precautions are required.
We’re reminded of Paul’s words
at 1 Corinthians 14:33.
Remember that one?
“God is a God not of disorder
but of peace,” the Bible says.
The disorder we see in the world
is proof positive
that Jehovah is not with them.
But from Jehovah’s organization,
we’ve had clear direction
from the very beginning.
And we thank Jehovah for it.
For example,
think of the information we’ve received
through recent Governing Body updates.
This is evidence of Jehovah’s
loving direction—his goodness.
In last month’s update,
Brother Lett made a very important point.
He reminded us that the information
we’re receiving regarding the pandemic
is prepared by faithful brothers.
We can trust them.
They aren’t motivated by some
personal view or political agenda.
They love us.
They want the best for us.
I hear someone ask, ‘What do they know?’
Wrong question.
I think the right question is,
What does Jehovah know?
It comes down to this, friends:
Do I really believe
that Jehovah is directing
this organization today?
Do I believe that Jehovah
will give insight to his faithful people
so they can remain “in the land
of the living,” as the psalmist said?
To repeat the question
we often raise in field service,
Does God really care?
Would Jehovah allow the Governing Body,
the helpers, missionaries,
a huge percentage
of the worldwide Bethel family,
and other full-time servants
to engage in practices
or receive a COVID-19 vaccine
that would be harmful?
Surely Jehovah wants
the brothers at world headquarters
to continue providing spiritual food.
He wants to make sure
that the work continues
at our branch offices and in the field.
To do that, we have to be
“in the land of the living.”
Now, what about the prophecy
that ‘a great crowd
which no man can number’
will come out of the great tribulation?
Our God is definitely not like Pharaoh,
who wanted to kill off
an entire generation
of Jehovah’s worshippers.
We are convinced
that Jehovah cares about the health
and safety of his people
and that he will guide us, saying, in effect:
“This is the way.
Walk in it,” you people.
When we embark on a certain course,
we always look for evidence
of Jehovah’s blessing
to see whether
we’re on the right track or not.
So has Jehovah blessed
our efforts during this pandemic?
Yes, indeed.
Well, of course, the pandemic has
slowed activities for many of our brothers,
especially in areas
without good Internet connections.
Think of everything you’ve
accomplished in recent months.
Many congregations
are reporting record attendances
at our virtual congregation meetings.
Inactive ones are returning to Jehovah,
and how we thank God for that!
Our Memorial attendance for 2021
reached an all-time peak
of 21,367,603.
And many branches
have reported new all-time peaks
in the number of publishers.
But that’s not all.
You’ve shown exemplary concern
and brotherly affection for one another,
proving that you
truly are Christ’s disciples.
We commend you most warmly.
Who can deny that Jehovah
is blessing your work?
And consider what the Bethel family
has been able to accomplish
during the pandemic,
only with Jehovah’s blessing.
We all appreciate our beautiful
new publication, Enjoy Life Forever!
That was a tremendous amount of work
involving hundreds of hours of overtime.
But that’s not all that was accomplished
during the pandemic.
What about the monthly broadcasts?
We never missed one.
Then there are the beautiful videos,
our regional conventions,
the Gilead graduations,
and the annual meetings.
All of this was possible
because the Bethel family stayed healthy.
Many brothers and sisters
have written to express appreciation
for knowing what precautions
we’re taking at world headquarters.
Why?
Simple.
Can you think of another group
in Jehovah’s organization
that would be more at risk of infection
than the Bethel family?
Hundreds of us live together,
work together, eat together,
share the same surfaces day in and day out.
So, many brothers and sisters have concluded
that what works for the Bethel family
is likely to work for them.
And now we’re moving
into another phase of the pandemic.
Wasn’t it exciting to see
the recent JW News article
about the pilot program
to resume in-person congregation meetings
in selected lands?
It’s been a long time since we’ve been
able to be together in person.
You might be wondering
what led up to the pilot program.
Governing Body committees
have been prayerfully evaluating when
and how to resume in-person meetings safely.
Earlier this year, it didn’t seem
to be the right time to start.
Vaccines weren’t available
in many lands, infection rates were high,
and the Delta variant was rapidly spreading.
But in September,
the situation started to appear more hopeful,
at least in some areas of the world.
In October,
17 branches were approved
to participate in a pilot program
to resume in-person congregation meetings.
These branches represent
a variety of circumstances and continents:
Africa, Asia, Australia,
Europe, North and South America.
Now, the Branch Committees
in all these countries
need to consider carefully
what the local government regulations are
for such indoor gatherings
as our congregation meetings.
The regulations vary from country to country.
You might be wondering,
does this mean that Zoom is going away?
We’re pleased to inform you
that approval has been given
for congregations in the pilot program
to have the option
of holding hybrid meetings,
where some attend
in person at the Kingdom Hall
while others are tied in via Zoom.
As of November 8,
14 branches have already
held their first meetings.
As you can imagine,
our brothers and sisters
were overjoyed to meet together again.
Let’s hear from a few of them.
When it was announced
at the midweek meeting
that our congregation
had been invited to hold
in-person meetings as part of a project,
I was so happy that I
jumped out of my chair for joy.
It was a tremendous emotion!
I couldn’t believe it,
that it was actually happening.
All of a sudden out of nowhere
—we’re coming back!
And we walk in the hall and you’re like,
“These are all my brothers and sisters,
and we’re all together.”
You just felt like you were at home.
Being back at the meetings,
I feel like the fire is burning
in my heart because of happiness.
It really felt good.
It was lovely to see
the brothers and sisters coming into
the entranceway, and to greet them
was so great.
I wanted to go
and give somebody a very big hug.
But since I couldn’t,
I would go to Mom and Dad
and hug them and say,
“This is for this person.”
Being able to be at the Kingdom Hall,
I had to pinch myself
to make sure I was not dreaming.
On the way there,
we were really excited.
And when we finally went inside,
seeing the friends, hugging them
—it was really an indescribable feeling.
If you’d like to take your seats,
we will get our meeting underway.
To hear the singing, even with the masks on,
was really encouraging.
I love the singing.
I think everyone got better
over the 18 months.
We all got to practice.
It was beautiful!
It felt like going home to my family.
Being able to sing together
with brothers and sisters in person,
being able to stretch my hand again
—all in our congregation
were delighted to be part of it.
Being at home is more comfortable.
But you can be
distracted by any little thing.
But being here is much better
because we pay
more attention to the meetings.
I was baptized in 2020
during the regional convention.
It’s now over a year since I got baptized,
but this is my first time at the Kingdom Hall
as a baptized brother.
Since it is my first time at the hall
at a meeting in person,
I felt so happy and also nervous
because I had to meet
the brothers and sisters in person.
I knew some of the older ones
were a little bit apprehensive
about coming to the meetings,
but there they were at the meeting,
loyally attending.
And that actually
was a very encouraging experience.
Going back to the Kingdom Hall
and seeing my brothers and sisters
was something so beautiful.
Hearing their voices live
and no longer from a computer
and seeing their eyes sparkling with joy,
shiny with emotion,
made me feel an extraordinary emotion
inside the heart.
Jehovah has been taking good care
of us through the Governing Body,
and now that we got the chance
to experience this,
we’re very thankful for the opportunity
to serve Jehovah, to meet together.
It’s been very, very nice.
Meeting together with brothers and sisters
is what Jehovah God wants.
Jehovah created us for that—to be together,
to live in unity.
It was an upbuilding experience.
It was beautiful
because it strengthened
the spirit of belonging
that we find only in Jehovah’s people.
And that’s why I can only say,
“Thank you, thank you, thank you, Jehovah!”
Well, that was exciting, wasn’t it?
If you’re like me, I’m sure we’re all anxious
to get back to these in-person meetings.
And based on the results
of this pilot program,
we hope that additional congregations
can be approved
to resume in-person meetings
in the months ahead.
In the meantime,
we can continue to pray
for Jehovah’s guidance
and blessing on these arrangements.
So, dear friends,
let’s keep focusing our eyes
on “the One who is invisible,”
trusting that our God loves us
and that he will never allow
his people to come to harm.
May Jehovah continue to bless you all richly!
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®!